# ExtendedKalman
The Extended Kalman Filter (developed by Rudolf E. Kalman) is used to compute a predicted state, such as position and velocity,  from a previous state or states. Kalman filters are widely used in aviation and transportation applications. For example, Kalman filters are the basis for autopilot projects such as  (https://pixhawk.org/modules/pixhawk) PixHawk and (https://github.com/openpilot/OpenPilot) Open Pilot. Kalman filters are used for things like trackers and for thing like alignment of inertial platforms in guidance systems. In addition to estimation, Kalman filters are often used in sensor fusion. Kalman filters estimate object state using a Predict step and an Update step. The Predict step predicts object state. The Update step uses semsor mesauremenst to update object state.  The Predict and Update state are performed iteratively, as new sensor data becomes available.

In this project, the position and velocity of a pedestrian are estimated by fusing the measurements from LIDAR and RADAR sensors. Multiple sensors are used to estimate a more accurate state. The state is the pedestrian's position and velocity. The LIDAR sensor is used for position, the RADAR sensor is used for both position and velocity. To estimate position and velocity, Kalman filters assume a Gausssian distribution - the mean and the variance of each dimension of motion and used to construct a state vector and a covariance matrix. 

The LIDAR sensor measurements are processed using a cartesian coordinate system. The RADAR sensor uses a polar coordiate system where rho is the range, phi is the angle between the sensor and the object, and rho_dot is the range rate. Since the radar measurements are not linear, a modification is needed to use the basic Kalman filter equations. This modification is used to construct a linear approixmation for the RADAR sesnsor. This linear approximation is realized using a Taylor series expansion. A Taylor series expansion is a representation of a function as an infinite sum of terms that are calculated from the values of a functions derivatives at a single point. This project only uses the first partial derivative of the radar measurements for this linear approximation. This is a 4x4 matrix known as the *Jacobian*. The Jacobian is the partial derivatve of rho (range), phi (bearing), and rho_dot (range rate) with respect to x position, y position, x velocity, and y velocity. Thsi linear approximation is the reason for the term *Extended* Kalman filter. 
